Oja Oba/Mapo Court C Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State, has dissolved the 12-year-old matrimony of a man, Segun Omoniyi and his wife, Remi Omoniyi over allegations of irresponsibility, violence and adultery. Segun who brought the divorce suit against his wife told the court she constantly despised him and made him an object of ridicule before their children, family members and friends. The plaintiff, as a result, prayed the court to abort their union and grant him custody of their two children. Remi agreed to divorce but refused that being their children be handed over to her husband, her reason that he was irresponsible and insensitive to her needs and that of their children. The court president, Chief Ademola Odunade after listening to the evidence given by both parties stated that their marriage had broken down irretrievably. Giving his judgment, Odunade separated the couple and granted custody of their children to the plaintiff. The defendant was ordered to pay the sum of N3, 000 through the court for the defendant to pack her belongings out of his home. “My wife disregards me and regularly insults me. She made me of no worth before our children and neighbours, “Segun stated in court. “My lord, I have not known peace neither do I have rest of mind since we got married. “She nags a lot and is always looking for every opportunity to fight me. Any time we have a misunderstanding, she will use unprintable words at me and rain curses on me. “She spites  me by telling me my body stinks like that of a corpse during s3x and stopped having s3x with me two and a half years ago. I find this very humiliating and embarrassing. “She did family planning without my consent. I stumbled on a paper relating to this under her bed and demanded for an explanation.  She fought me for having the audacity to ask her, “he stated. “My wife is adulterous. News of her escapades has consistently filtered into my ears. I once came across some dollar notes under her bed; she has refused to tell me how she came about the money till date. “At another time, I came across some pictures she took with one of her lovers who wore the same material with her. “My lord, there was a day I returned from work in the morning earlier than expected. I met her tying a wrapper round her chest while one of our neighbours, a male, who had the same kind of wrapper round his waist dashed into his room. I knew something was fishy.  I later learnt that this particular neighbour always shared her bed every time I was on night duty. “The last time we had a misunderstanding, she would have stabbed me but for neighbours who came to my rescue. “My lord, I’m tired of her. I no more love her, please, separate us. “I can’t wait to be separated from you but I won’t watch you take our children away, “Remi said in court. “My husband has made life difficult for me since we got married. I would have left him seven years ago because he’s irresponsible and insensitive to my needs, but my sister counseled me to stay in the marriage and endure its challenges. “He was out of job for some time and in order not to allow our children suffer, I took up a job in a beer parlour and used my salary in running the home. “Instead of appreciating me, he started complaining that I was returning home late. He also accused me of having illicit affair with my boss and other male customers, Remi told the court. “My lord, I feed and clothe him and our children because he’s irresponsible but he still beats me. Whenever we fight, he will seize the stove, cooking utensils and mattress for days. “I took the picture he mentioned earlier on with a friend, not a lover. “My sister bought me a grinding machine but he told his elder sister it was bought by one of my lovers, “she added. “He doesn’t care for our children, I, therefore, pray that you grant me their custody. “Our son once took ill in the middle of the night; I ran helter skelter for help but he laid on the bed fast asleep and snoring. He didn’t wake up until the morning and started pressing the boy’s stomach and feeling his heart beat to my annoyance. “My lord, I’m done with him, “the defendant said. 