The newly elected national president of Fuji Musicians Association of Nigeria (FUMAN), Sikiru Ayinde Agboola, has promised to ensure that his programmes for the more than 22,000 member-group are successfully carried out. While admitting his admiration for his predecessor, Maruf Shadow, for ensuring that unity prevailed among its members, Agboola, (a.k.a) SK Sensation, said his paramount goals for the next four years were: “to ensure that the peace in our house continues; to position FUMAN for more corporate support as being presently given by Nigerian Breweries especially, and to further engage in activities that will improve the lives of its members,” Admitting that this could be daunting, he told Razz that the cooperation of members would eventually make things happen. “I trust that our past and present leaders will continue to support the association, so there’s no need for anxiety,” he added. SK Sensation was elected FUMAN president after his major opponent, Rafiu Atanda, stepped down after the former delivered his speech to the 40 delegates, Ganiyu Iyanda Composer, the music body’s secretary general, also told R that the aspirations of the present regime would be met once the atmosphere of peace among our members continues. ALSO READ: ‘My music will help youths discover their purpose in God’ “That is when our president’s plan to, among other things, organise special awards; hold educative seminars and begin a series of musical activities that will involve our other members who are not in Nigeria, can be carried out,” he said. Apart from the female welfare officer, Shalewa Arowolaje; male welfare officer, Dare Akanbi, and the provost, Tunde Fadaka, the rest of the executive members were part of the past regime’s government and were all unopposed at the election which was held at the Genesis Hotels & Suites in Ibadan on Wednesday. The other executive members are: Kabiru Kehinde (first vice president); Iswail Abolaji Adisa (second vice president); Ejira Owolabi Patira (treasurer); Tunde Alao Mangana (organising secretary) and Kamor Dagold (financial secretary). Atanda was the association’s organizing secretary, but he had to resign from the post to contest against Sensation. SHOCKING LIFE STORY!!! Abuja Man reveals (FREE) secret Fruits that
Increased his Manh0d size and Lasting Power in just 7days… CLICK HERE
TO GET IT!!! BUY OR SELL YOUR CAR IN 5 MINUTES WITH 2020CARS.NET CLICK HERE.  YOUR NEW CAR CONNECTS IN NIGERIA.